this is Neil
Patel helping you succeed through online
marketing all right so with all this
recession talk people are talking about
if holiday spending from consumers is
going to go up or down and here's the
crazy thing it's either going to break
even or it's going to go even higher for
this holiday season so I'm going to
share my screen real quick and then
we're g to we're going to react to this
news over here because the headline is
holiday spend expected to reach 1.6
trillion it's from ICS see yeah it's
actually not too alarming or shocking
for me and here's why we talk about
inflation all the time and the
government's saying that yeah even
though the stock market other than the
main you know tech stocks that are
driving up the market other than them a
lot of the stocks aren't performing
well and if you look at it people like
inflation's still kicking in but then
they're saying people are still spending
you know maybe they're not spending at
the growth rate that they were in the
past but they're still spending
um so I'm not shocked it's more so it
doesn't mean that it's a good thing
either and here's why I'll give you a
great example of this I have a friend
and he's dating someone and this person
is in debt and you know they're getting
closer and closer to being out of debt
but it's credit card debt so you can
imagine how high the rates are no it's
Stacks yeah it's stacks and he's just
like yeah she can be done with it in 2
three months and I'm like but then
she'll want to buy all her friends
Christmas presents Etc so she's going to
get herself more into debt and it's not
just her and I'm not saying that's wrong
or right it's just the reality of the
situation and a lot of people are okay
with that kind of life and it also is
what helps keep spending going up and up
and up as long as people have steady
jobs they justify why they should spend
more and it's okay I can pay it off
later the interest isn't bad instead of
just thinking about saving the money yep
so here's here get this over here I just
want to read this so those of you that
can't see the screen so it says in
September deoe released a report
projecting that retail sales could rise
between 3.5 and 4.6% this holiday season
pushing sales up so I mean here's the
thing the ne you talked about stocks so
I was looking at um Amazon I think
reported great earnings who else
reported great earnings was it meta as
well Microsoft did really well meta
reported great earnings but then they
talked about the Middle East can impact
their stock and then they lost the gains
um alphabet did not report amazing uh
earnings uh their Cloud division wasn't
growing as fast as the market would like
yeah so you know we're still in this
look at this wild Shoppers earning
between 100K and 200k anticipate
spending 2% more than last year those
with incomes between 50 and
$999,000 uh expect to spend 26 more
percent uh than last year so um look
with all the crazy stuff happening in
the world right now the spend still
going up so there's the economy is kind
of still resilient right so who knows
what's going to happen but I think the
the key takeaway here is that you still
should be mindful of how you're watching
your spend overall if you're a business
um and at least you have a sense for how
consumers are spending I think 20124 is
going to be the year where people start
becoming more realistic and the reason I
say that is eventually this is going to
have to catch up with some people Tech
layoffs I don't know if you saw the
recent articles on Tech runer starting
to increase again there's a lot of other
Industries that we work with that we're
seeing them starting to lay off as well
it's just a matter of time the the big
reason the world isn't going round and
round is money is not cheap when money's
not cheap it's harder for businesses to
buy and invest more it's harder for
consumers to spend more because they're
paying an arm and a leg more on their
credit card rates right all these things
just drastically impact how people spend
um and I think next year people start
coming to reality dude I was talking to
a business that's in Mexico a few weeks
ago and we tried buying them and I won't
mention the name but they're they're
doing around $5 million in Revenue they
used to do around a million in profit
they had to offer in the past to sell
for around five million bucks and their
revenue has stayed roughly the same uh
it's not really higher but it's flat
their eida has gone down by half
actually a little bit more than half and
they're coming to me and they're like
yeah we want the same price that we were
getting when we were doing really well
I'm like okay that's not going to happen
if you get by the numbers back I'll give
you $5 million and then he's like well
next year I'm going to make triple the
money right it wasn't really triple it
went from 500 to 1.4 million in EAA but
close enough to triple and I was like
okay how you going to get there he's
like oh we're going to add in these new
lines of services that we've never done
and we're going to sell it have you
started selling it no have you started
doing those businesses no he's like we
we'll just make it work and we know our
customers are going to buy it I'm like
it's not that easy to just you know if
you've never been at 1.5 million in iida
you're not just going to go from 400
something to 1.5 I'm like cool next year
will be a reality check I kept a good
relationship and I'm like when you don't
hit the numbers or if you do hit the
numbers come back to us and either way
we'll give you a normal multiple you
know what he pretty much wanted was
roughly 11 times I'm like no one's going
to give you 11 times profit for a
declining business where a lot of your
revenue is Project based and there's no
Outlook over the next few years but I'm
like once you come back down to reality
I'm here to buy the company when you're
ready here's the thing it's you can't
one thing people should understand is
you can't trade on potential we we in
the last 10 years or so we traded on
potential we traded on future earnings
right people weren't really focused on
driving creating actual business
creating customers and doing a good job
for them they're just trying to raise
the next round because that was the
incentive right now it's about
efficiency and what's going to need to
happen is the economy is going to get
punched in the face people need to get
punched in the face a little bit
ourselves included right it's not that
we want people to get punched in the
face but it's going to bring us back to
discipline oh totally and look I that's
why I think next year we really going to
start seeing things shake up because
you're going to have a long time of high
interest rates and then reality is going
to kick in with people because a lot of
people in this world are in debt you
know we've been saying this will be the
last thing but we've been saying this
for a while it's like you know it's
going to be 2023 it's going to be the
next year the next year I truly do
believe it's going to be the next year
and hopefully it gets better but who
knows if it actually gets better in 2025
honestly who knows man I'm hoping it
gets better you know eventually I rather
just take my licks now just let's just
get it over get it over with I'm with
you on that all right that is it for
today please don't forget to rate review
subscribe and we will see you tomorrow
now if you have any questions leave a
comment below I'm here to answer them
and help you out if you enjoyed the
video like it share tell people about it
thank you very much